>> Estelle Weyl: And then there is
sometimes where CSS you have a problem and
CSS is actually a solution
instead of using frameworks, so
I came up with two things.
I had a designer who really didn't
want the placeholder to be gray and
he wanted it to stay when
the user was typing in code.
So here if I type in the 5,
the month, so May 44, right?
You saw here that the Y was still
there and the Y is pink but
I could change it and
make it green, right?
Right now it's one pixel too high but
I can fix that.
So I had this requirement
to figure out how
to make it so
the placeholder was a different color so
that it was a mask, it was input masking
so that when the user was entering data,
they always saw it and
I thought how can I do this.
I can either use jquery with
the input mask framework,
which keeps it the same color, but
at least makes input mask black,
cuz it's actually the value, or
I could come up with a solution.
So my solution was to create
a span that is behind the input.
So making the input transparent,
put a span behind it that says MM/YY.
And when they fill in the first character,
that first M goes transparent.
When they fill in the second character,
that second M,
it's still there as the number 5 but
it is transparent.
And then when they enter 4 with
Javascript, I add the slash.
But with the CSS, I make the mask that
they have already entered transparent.
So what I did is I basically
set input idea for
the ZIP code if this one's for
the ZIP code.
I said id = zip, type = telephone so
that I get the keypad, the number keypad.
Name is ZIP code, class is mask,
placeholder is xxxxx or
5 x's,
pattern which is an HTML5 attribute.
I said five digits exactly and
entitled five digits it could.
With a little bit of JavaScript,
I progressively enhanced it.
If they don't have JavaScript, it still
works fine cuz the above is totally valid
HTML and the browser will validate it.
If they have JavaScript,
it takes the masked.
It puts a span in front of
it with Aria head untrue,
the idea is that mask and
then if they had entered
the number 123,
the number 123 is inside the I.
And then the numbers if they haven't done
the mass that still there is not inside
the eye and I made the eye transparent.
So that whole span,
which goes before in the code,
before the markup, before that input,
is just the actual
final value that we're looking for, with
the stuff that's in the I transparent.
So, this took very little JavaScript, it
took 125 lines of JavaScript to basically
Not just create this but also to validate
to ensure that there's firm validation.
And the css is basically
shell span color green,
which you can change
>> Estelle Weyl: The I is transparent.
And.
>> Estelle Weyl: It's kind
of it.
>> Estelle Weyl: There's a GitHub Repo
right here if you wanna take a look.
There's a few more lines of CSS and for
some reason I did not include
it in this little thing.
Let's click on the GitHub Repo,
open in a new tab, and take a look.
>> Estelle Weyl: The CSS
>> Estelle Weyl: The input that's masked,
the important part is
that it's transparent,
that's the only feature that
is monospace and transparent.
That's really the only
thing that's different.
The shell span I is transparent or has an
opacity of zero or its visibility hidden.
Anyone of these three will work and
that's the feature.
So I put it exactly in the same location,
because the span is actually positioned
absolutely with in that parent.
So I put this behind the input.
If I had it put in front of the input,
because they wanted a background
color on the input, which is doable,
all I would have had to do is put
pointer events none on the span.
And the pointer events known
is actually a feature.
We're gonna talk about it in,
like, two minutes.
So another feature that I
wanted to do was to create
an accessible carousel
without java script.
There is three lines of java
script in this carousel.
Right here, you can barely see it,
but the second.
Circle was selected.
I'm gonna click on the right arrow.
>> Estelle Weyl: I'm
just clicking on the right arrow on my
keyboard, the left arrow on my keyboard,
the up arrow, [COUGH] and the down arrow.
You see how that's perfectly functional?
It's completely accessible
because I'm using radio buttons.
The only thing that JavaScript does
is it changes the class on the parent
to give it a class,
to say which one's showing.
And then I transition left and
right, based on that click.
So HTML for this is field set and
then a legend.
So to the screen, we're actually saying,
select an address to edit and
then I have a label for my address and
then I have an input type
radio that has see label for
address1 and this is id address1 and
it's checked.
And then the next one gets checked and
all that happens is the class.
Up here of left0 goes from left0,
left1, left2, left3, left4 or
however many there are and that's it.
All I'm doing is transitioning
the left property.